---
categories: english, festival, sziget, music
author: Domen Kožar
date: 2009/08/16 13:26:00
title: "Sziget festival 2009"
draft: false
---

Rather spontaneous than planned, I decided to visit `Sziget festival
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sziget_Festival>`_ with 3 old friends. We met one day before the
festival began, drinking coffee in `Che bar <http://www.chebar.si/>`_. We chatted about money and
food that we need to bring, where do we meet for departure and what is Sziget really all about. I
had no idea what bands preform there, or even how to survive on Sziget.


1st day - Traveling
===================

My `P1i <http://www.sonyericsson.com/cws/products/mobilephones/overview/p1i>`_ failed again, leaving
me in bed until friends called at 9:20 asking where the hell am I. It took me 3min to pack; and few
more to brush teeth, update some website (which was urgent exactly the same moment I wanted to go)
and kiss girlfriend goodbye.

Before going on trip, we went to buy about 40 beers to `Hofer <http://hofer.si/>`_ and at 10:15 we
were already on road from Ljubljana (Slovenia) to Budapest (Hungary), which is about 450km apart.
The trip was nothing special, we were chased by police on highway, but roundabout saved us. Čeh was
nice enough to drive in both directions, so the others were able to open a beer on the way. When we
arrived to Obudai island, official parking was already full. They recommended some others (like 10€
per night), but we parked in front of some old socialistic buildings and it turned out to be pretty
secure;) We had some concerns about smuggling beers inside the festival, turns out it was pretty
easy;)

.. image:: /images/008_sziget_2009_1.jpg
    :alt: park the car, drink beer!

Organization of the festival already shined at very beginning, you could really see they have
everything thought through. No wonder, the festival has been performed already for last 15 years.
Anyway, while we were setting up our tents, Čeh already went to `Nouvelle Vague
<http://www.nouvellesvagues.com/>`_ on main stage. Sara, Douč and me joined him later, when they
almost finished. `SKA-P <http://ska-p.com/index.php>`_ followed; even though I don't really listen
to SKA, `mosh pit <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moshing>`_ and `crowd surfing
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowd_surfing>`_ were amazing. We split up during mosh pit and I went
walking around, with main goal to find some good music to fit my taste.

.. image:: /images/008_sziget_2009_2.jpg
    :alt: SKA-P mosh pitting and crowd surfing

This is when I actually first started to feel "the good spirits" for Sziget festival. Near to our
tent, I found Budapest Jazz Club stage and listened to Tzumo Electronic Dreams. They really made my
heart dance, it was like an entrance to all this festival music. At Jazz stage, one could buy
burgers and I decided to go for chicken. After Tzumo, `Free Style Chamber Orchestra
<http://www.fsco.hu/>`_ started to groove some smooth, easy jazz. I decided to go check Blues Kocsma
and to my surprise, `The Blues B.R.Others Show <http://www.bluesbrothers.hu/>`_ were on stage trying
to give their best music after `the two famous brothers
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Blues_Brothers>`_. 

Čeh came to Kocsma and picked me up, we ran together to 38A stage, listen to the famous `White Lies
<http://www.whitelies.com/>`_. It's not my type of music, but it was a pretty cozy concert. Light
effects were amazing, but maybe the vocals were too low (at least in 4th row). Some chick really
rubbed her Italian boy around penis with her ass, which made Čeh really nervous:D Another crazy guy
tried to go mosh pitting on White Lies, but people cooled him down quickly. Before the end of the
concert, I had to leave to drink some water (those beers really sucked all out of me). After that I
wandered around, don't really remember anything interesting that happened:D First day successful!


2nd day - Total Knockout
========================

Woke up at 11:00 and decided to go to Budapest for a "morning" coffee. This was my second time in
Budapest (I spent New Year's Eve there, I think in 2003), it is a wonderful city. A little bit older
and dirty than Ljubljana, but still very rich. We walked around for quite some time, searching for a
"cheap bar". The thing is, we judged them by outlook, not by prices. Ended in bar where coffee was
about 2.5€ and frape was only 3€. _Noone_ took coffee;)

After the Budapest tour, we cooked some good Spaghetti with goulash and tomato sauce. At about 16:00
we went for walk around the island, we haven't seen the East part yet. Too bad we arrived at Blues
Kocsma at 18:00 when `Jimi Hendrix Memorial Band <http://jhm.uw.hu/>`_ started. Thanks to all the
folks that gathered around for alarming us:)

.. image:: /images/008_sziget_2009_3.jpg
    :alt: Jimmy Hendrix memorial band, Sziget 2009

I wasn't expecting anything, since `Pavle Kavec <http://www.trio-oko.com/oko.html>`_ really gives
best spirit to Jimmy Hendrix as far as I've seen. JHM surprised me, the lead guitarist played licks
by Hendrix and didn't try to squeeze his own style. Take it as good or bad, people really enjoyed
the show. As you can see, people got on stage, kissed the artists, shake'd the ass few times and
dove into crowd surfing. I've been to many Jimmy Hendrix tributes, but this one really flowed with
energy. Thanks JHM, keep up the good work! (missed Stone Free though;)

Short pause, followed by long, full of energy night. We went to Jack Daniels bar, where one could
buy Jack with Cola and got an extra 100 point ticket for Blackjack. The dealers were nicely dressed
girls, so tables were pretty full of bad guys. For 1100 points one could get Jack Daniels T-Shirt, I
got one while Čeh got three of them. It wasn't that hard after all. The bar had commercial rock
music, which was pretty good to relax. People inside got pretty crazy on some songs, so some
security guys came closer. Nevertheless, nothing happened. I haven't seen a single blip of anger
during 4 days in Sziget.


3rd day - Chill out
===================

On Friday, it started raining just after we woke up. Festival organisation shined even in such
circumstances, one could see people running around in raincoats. Čeh, Sara, Douč and me decided to
play card game called `"Enka" <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uno_(game)>`_ followed by big, fatass
New York hotdog. At about 16:00 rain stopped, and we decided to change clothes and split up, each to
his own stage.

Again, I went to the Blues stage and listened to New Orleans blues Jambalaya. With Zoltan Nemes on
piano/vocals, the blues just got somehow jumpy and soulful. I really liked it, great music to drink
a few beers;) Then again, to my surprise, came a band that preformed Jimmy Hendrix, called Póka Egon
Experience (sorry I cannot find any info about them on internet). They really had somewhat special
attitude against Hendrix and gypsy music. Something special, but solos from lead guitarists really
made my heart hurt. Shredding on Hendrix's rythmical and melodical solos is really a great way to
take everything from his music.

.. image:: /images/008_sziget_2009_4.jpg
    :alt: pretty girls, sziget 2009

Afternoon. We went to eat some chinese noodles and visited Ability Park (which was really relaxing).
Main goal is to finish the contest that the toy offers. Most of the times you have to get ball on
the other side of the toy. After as-the-spanish-call-it siesta I went to `Budapest Jazz Orchestra
<http://www.bjo.hu/>`_. Few jazzy songs to relax, and at 23:00 it was time for Jack Daniel's bar,
again. Blackjack, rock music, crazy people and Jack Daniels. Night over.


Last day & About Festival
=========================

Festival was just awsome. I really liked the idea and challange to collect all different sorts of
T-Shirts. WCs were pretty standard, cleaned every day. They even had bigger ones with mirror and
AC/DC. You could even get showered by bikini girls and got free swimming pants.

.. image:: /images/008_sziget_2009_5.jpg
    :alt: Bikini girls axe shower, Sziget 2009

Food choice was more or less anything Europe and Asia know. One could eat Hebrew, Chinese, Japan,
Greek, Churros, New York Hotdogs, kebab, gyros, mini-donuts, etc.

.. image:: /images/008_sziget_2009_6.jpg
    :alt: I want to have sex now, Sziget 2009

Čeh also got this crazy idea, called "Tent raping". Girl would bond red `headscarf
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headscarf>`_ to a tent, which would mean she's all in for action!
Well, laughter was far from being absent in Sziget.

Anyway, we got up ta 8am, packed everything including tents, bought 40 cans of beer for 0.4€ and
started driving back. We got some problems finding the right way out of Budapest, but in the
meantime I bought postcard for my girlfriend Iris (she collects them). I spent about 200€ in 4 days,
which is fair enough for that amount of phun;) I'm very sad I forgot to take my `SX10IS PowerShot
Canon <http://www.letsgodigital.org/images/artikelen/6/canon-powershot-sx10-is-photo-gallery.jpg>`_,
but hey, one year is quickly around;) May the force be with you!

PS: one free beer to first one that finds my face in `this picture
</images/008_sziget_2009_7.jpg>`_.
